# Core Games

The core set of games demonstrates...

**Multiple different objectives**
- no objective sandbox (just interacting with different types of beings) (Explore)
- studying teamwork/collaboration dynamics (Teamwork)
- studying understanding of character goals and overall behavior after single and/or mutiple interactions (Infer Intent, Goal Horizon, Foresight)
- studying how well the simulation engine represents character behavior (Turing Test)

**Multiple ways of collecting data**
- No (or anonymous) data collection (Explore)
- Inline command data collection (Foresight via /predict commands, Turing Test via binary choice at each step)
- Form at end (Goal Horizon)
- Per-turn rubric evaluation (Infer Intent)

**Multiple ways selecting PC/NPC characters**
- Single shot new characters (Infer Intent, Explore)
- Multi-interaction arcs and/or scene changes in-game (Goal Horizon, Teamwork)
- Diverse selectors queriable using MongoDB style {field: value} syntax:
  - Specific character by hid
  - Character descriptors (e.g. normative human, animal, companion, service animal, etc.) (Foresight NPC, Teamwork NPC, Turing Test PC)
  - Characters with specific abilities (e.g. linguistic communication, goal modeling, etc.) (Infer Intent PC, Goal Horizon PC)
  - Character not played recently
  - Characters not played by this player and/or game before
  - Characters that this player hasn't finished playing from a previously started game
  - Etc.

*NOTE: Multiple NPCs is NOT SUPPORTED in this version does not support more than one PC and one NPC interacting. There may be other beings in background scenes, etc but only PC and NPC are directly involved in the game flow.*

---

## Explore

Demonstrates game with...
+ Objective: Canonical open-ended, non-objective sandbox. Interaction flows based on character abilities and scene context with validity checkpoints.
+ Character Selection: wide range of PC and NPC characters (PC can be any human-like character; NPC can be any character)
+ Data Collection: None

## Foresight

Demonstrates game with...
+ Objective: Demonstrates a common way humans check if they understand each other. (How surprising is their behavior? Unsurprising implies understanding.)
+ Character Selection: NPC is restricted to normative human characters; PC can be any other character.
+ Data Collection: Players predict next behaviors using inline '/predict' commands.

## Goal Horizon

Demonstrates game with...
+ Objective: Shows ability to learn structured goal-models of characters over multiple interactions.
+ Character Selection: PC is restricted to human-like characters (must be capable of linguistic communication and modeling goals of others). NPC's are not restricted.
+ Data Collection: Structured survey/form at end of multi-interaction arc to evaluate learned goal-model.

## Infer Intent
Demonstrates game with...
+ Objective: Shows ability to infer latent goals/intents of never-before-met characters from limited cues in a single interaction.
+ Character Selection: PC is restricted to human-like characters (must be capable of linguistic communication and modeling goals of others). NPC's are restricted to characters that can communicate a goal.
+ Data Collection: Natural langauge rubric evaluated at each player turn to assess any communicated goals/intents inferred.

## Teamwork
Demonstrates game with...
+ Objective: Shows ability to collaborate with another being to achieve a shared goal over single or multiple interactions.
+ Character Selection: PC is restricted to human-like characters (must be capable of linguistic communication and modeling goals of others). NPC's are restricted to any other human-like character or animal or companion or service animal.
+ Data Collection: 

## Turing Test
Demonstrates game with...
+ Objective: Shows ability to distinguish between real vs simulated characters based on their behavior in a game setting.
+ Character Selection: PC is restricted to normative human. NPCs are restricted to characters the PC has expertise in evaluating (e.g. can be a reliable evaluator)
+ Data Collection: Binary real vs simulation choice at each interaction step.